---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

### Humanitarian Open Source Projects

I think one of the projects I mentioned in a post at the beginning of the semester - [OpenAPS](https://openaps.org/) - could be classified as a humanitarian project. OpenAPS is working on a better treatment method for type 1 diabetes, which would improve the lives of people who deal with that on a daily basis.

[Habitica](https://habitica.com/static/home) could potentially be classed as humanitarian project. It's a sort of RPG-ified to-do / habit tracker which aims to help people better achieve their goals. It's not as traditionally humanitarian as some other projects, but it does work to "improve the lives of other people" in a way.

Lastly, [OptiKey](https://github.com/OptiKey/OptiKey/wiki) is an open source assistive software that lets users control their computer using eye tracking. OptiKey is a humanitarian project because it's helping people with limited mobility who otherwise might not be able to use computers effectively.


### Project

On Thursday during our meeting time, we looked at a couple of recently submitted issues and tried to replicate them, think about what the underlying problem might be, and comment if needed. [More details under __Meeting Documentation__ on our project page](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/moment/projects/1). I think we're doing pretty well, and will probably be ready to start trying to solve problems soon.

Over the next week I'll be going through some more issues, this time with more of an eye out for whether we'd be able to tackle them. I'm also planning to keep closer track of the gitter chat (though it's usually pretty inactive). Ideally, I'll be able to comment on an issue or two, and come up with a few potential issues we could start looking at fixing.
