---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### Open Source
Whether this is right or not, when I hear "open source", I think of a software project that is free to use and open to contributions. There's probably a community of people, mostly volunteers, who devote some of their free time to improving the project.

Open source software is freely available for use by anyone, while closed source software often costs money. Because its source code is available for anyone to read, it is also very unlikely for open source software to do something nefarious/unwanted when you run it. Open source communities can come together to solve problems that might otherwise not be solved because the software is not profitable or because regulations prevent it from being implemented in a reaonable time frame.

However, because you pay for closed source software, the company producing it is more likely to invest in good usage insructions and technical support. This means closed source software might be easier for a beginner to use than open source software. Open source projects may also stagnate when people no longer have the time to work on them. As a user, there is more stability in using a closed source project where you can be reasonably sure that support and development will continue.

### Projects

- #### OpenAPS  
  The Open Artificial Pancreas System project is working on creating a closed loop system for insulin delivery for type 1 diabetecs. OpenAPS closes the gap between continuous glucose monitors, which check a patient's blood glucose every 5 minutes and transmit this data wirelessly, and insulin pumps, which calculate and deliver insulin to the body based on a blood glucose value manually entered by the user. Instead of requiring the user to check their glucose and enter it into the pump, OpenAPS is working on automatically sending glucose data to the pump and making adjustments to insulin delivery based on this data. This sort of system is in the process of being developed by most major insulin pump manufacturers, but because such systems require clinical trials and FDA approval, they are still years away from market. Therefore, OpenAPS provides a more timely alternative for patients eager to take advantage of a closed loop artificial pancreas system.  
  Currently, there is one system similar to OpenAPS commercially available to patients in the US. However, it lacks a lot of the customizability of OpenAPS, which makes it less useful to patients. There is another open source project working to the same goal that is at about the same stage of development as OpenAPS: Loop.
  I have type 1 diabetes myself, and am very excited about the development of closed loop systems like OpenAPS. I haven't personally used an OpenAPS system, because it requires the purchase of a specific (old) model of insulin pump that allows wireless communication, but I have seriously considered it! This project is probably what got me the most interested in open source :)

- #### VLC  
  VLC is an open source media player that is my go-to for playing any video file on my computer. I use it because it can open pretty much anything you throw at it. It has a pretty simple interface, with many more settings to dig through and customize if you so desire. The Mac alternative is QuickTime Player, which comes pre-installed with OSX. It's not terrible or anything, so the choice mostly comes down to personal preference.
  
- #### GIMP  
  GIMP (GNU Image Manipulation Program) is an raster graphics editor (aka pizels not vectors). It's basically an open source alternative to Photoshop, and lets you edit images in pretty much the same way. I use GIMP because it works well (though it's not especially beautiful), and I don't need to edit images very often so it doesn't make sense for me to buy Photoshop.

- #### Go  
  Go is an open source programming language developed by people at Google. I was introduced to it at my internship last summer, and I found it pretty easy to learn and use. Alternatives are obviously any other programming language!
  
### Questions for Tom Callaway
- In what ways does Red Hat make money on open source software?
- What are common issues open source projects face, and how can they be mitigated?

