---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

### Team Strengths + Weaknesses

I think everyone is very familiar with JS (probably me the least even though I've taken AIT), which will give us an initial advantage when we start looking through the project code. We seem to have a nice mix of people who are concerned with good team communication, good code design, and working efficiently and on time. Since we're juniors/seniors I'm pretty sure we all already have a lot of experience working on group projects. Everyone seems very communicative on our group chat so far, which is always helpful! :)

As for weaknesses, I think we're all a bit unsure of where to start on a project that we haven't worked on before - it's very different from class projects where you're the one building it from the ground up. Understanding the code base enough to feel like we can solve any bugs and figuring out how to interact with the community might be challenging for us.

### Meeting Time

We're planning to meet primarily on Thursday evenings from 6 to 8 PM. Our alternative will be any time on Saturday, or Tuesday evenings.

### Milestones

0. (only me) Play with Moment.js since I haven't used it in a project before.
1. Look through the Moment.js code to get a rough understanding of how it all works.
2. Look through recent issues and add any useful comments - maybe try to reproduce a bug, ask for more info, etc. This'll be helpful to get a better sense of the community as well as the types of issues we might work on.
3. Submit any easy fixes we come across - documentation changes, something where the solution has already been posted but just needs to be implemented, etc.
4. Examine an issue that hasn't been solved or a simple feature request, and work to solve it and submit a PR (getting it merged might take a while but we can try!).

### My Contributions This Week

1. [Edit OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/changeset/56741533) - add a few buildings to my hometown.

### Open Data Week

I'm planning to go to the Data Through Design exhibit and the BUGS event.
