---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

### Google + Open Source

I think it's great that Google has open-sourced so many projects and actually encourages participation by non-Googlers. Danna mentioned that most projects have issues specifically set aside for only first-time contributors, which sounds very helpful for getting people involved.

It was interesting to hear about how open source projects have somewhat different internal versions in the Google monorepo. Obviously it makes sense, but I think as an outside contributor, it would be really annoying to work on an issue only to find out that it nebulously "breaks something internal". Luckily, it didn't sound like that happens super often.

### Team Progress

We've started working on implementing the feature requested in issue #4514. I left a comment on the issue asking for a bit of clarification on what exactly the submitter had in mind and got a response. I also found where the code *actually* lives (whoops was slightly wrong last time). Changing the actual code should be simple enough, but doing it so it 1) doesn't break anything / is backwards-compatible and 2) actually works as intended will be the challenge. I haven't looked into the testing in the repo yet, but I figure we might have to write or modify a few tests as well. Overall we seem to be doing well.

### Code of Conduct

I think codes of conduct are good ways to codify what behaviour is and isn't acceptable, even though they don't really tell anybody anything new about how to act civilly. When someone acts in a way that isn't acceptable, it's useful to have a rulebook to point back to when telling them what they did wrong and considering the appropriate repercussions. If there's a code of conduct, no one can claim they didn't know something was unacceptable.

I think it is useful for most projects to have codes of conduct, especially if they have a larger contributor base. It's always helpful to explicitly set the standards for discussion and interaction, even if it seems like common sense.

Moment doesn't have a code of conduct, but it's not a very large project (and not super active) so it doesn't seem to be causing any issues.
