---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Cathedral vs Bazaar

The cathedral model of software development follows a highly centralized approach. There is generally a small team of developers working on a project in a structured, planned way. Each person is likely working on a separate specific part of the project. Releases are made infrequently, after rigorous testing to find and address any bugs.

The bazaar model follows a much less centralized approach. While there is still a small group of core developers, there are many others who contribute to the project in smaller ways - testing releases, finding and fixing bugs, and proposing new features. Because of this delegation, work on the project is much less centrally planned than in the cathedral model. New releases are made all the time, so that bug fixes can be pushed and new bugs can be found. However, while the cathedral model can start work from the ground up on a new project, the bazaar model requires an existing basis of runnable, testable code for users/collaborators to be able to improve upon.

I am personally much more experienced in the cathedral style of development, because this is how most coding projects for courses work. Therefore, I think I'm currently more comfortable working in the cathedral model - I know what's expected of me and how I can successfull contribute to the project. However, I'm not uncomfortable with the bazaar style because of anything other than inexperience - I think I'd probably enjoy it after getting more used to making contributions.

### Lessons

#### Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.

This "lesson" from _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_ emphasizes that you probably won't find the best solution the first time you try to solve a problem. It's only by attempting to solve the problem once that you come to really understand it well enough to code a better solution. Once you understand the problem, it's usually best to start over from scratch, rather than simply trying to improve your messy first solution.

#### The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.

This lesson encapsulates one of the differences between the bazaar and the cathedral. In a bazaar-style project, it is more important that the core developers or project coordinator listen to the ideas coming from their large base of collaborators/users, than it is that they come up with amazing ideas themselves (as they would need to in a cathedral project). Because there are so many contributing users in the bazaar model, it's likely that they will come up with many more good ideas than the few core developers of the project could by themselves.
