---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

### Questions for Danna Kelmer

- How did you first get involved in the open source community? Were you involved before your job at Google?
- What advice do you have for first-time contributors?
- What was your first PR to an open source project? Major or minor change? How did you find the issue to work on? (applicability sorta depends on the answer to #1)


### Project

During our meeting on Thursday, we decided to try working on issue [#4514](https://github.com/moment/moment/issues/4514). We spent most of our time looking at the code to find where the function we'll be modifying lives and figuring out how it works.

I am able to actively participate in what the group is working on - I found where in the code the method in question lives and we all looked around the code and talked about how we'll go about things. So far, we haven't broken up separate specific tasks for each person, because we've just barely started the actual fixing-the-issue (or, implementing-the-feature) part. Before our next meeting on Thursday, I'm going to look at that method more, and maybe play around with the code a bit locally. I might also keep an eye on any new issues, in case this one turns out to be more difficult than expected.


### Open Data Week

I finally got to go to a rescheduled event on Wednesday: _The Missing Product Manager_ at Civic Hall. [Here's me there](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ii5puYrGkNJEqMPTs1jWi2plaHKLZ6NR/view?usp=sharing).

It was a talk and a panel on the role of (and lack of) product managers for city programs. The talk portion was okay, but I found the panel really interesting. On the panel was someone who works on sites that help youth access and learn about city programs and someone who works on systems handling city-wide building and construction data (there was another person as well but I can't quite remember what she does!). I took away that product managers don't really exist in the system as is, but they would help represent the user's interests (rather than just the city employees at the other side of the software) and make sure that programs are being continually re-evaluated even after launch. This would help make city projects much more user-friendly and actually useful for the people they're ostensibly being made for.
